Latest Version of K8 1.25

Max Nodes inclusding Master nodes are 5000
Mac 1.5L pods in total cluster
max 110 pods per Worker Node.
Max 3L container per K8 cluster.

Components of Kubernet Master Node:

API Server

Kube Scheduler

Kube controller manager

-->Node COntroller 
--> replication controller
--> end points controller
--> service accounts & token controller



ETCD(Key value DB)

Components of Kubernet worker Node:

Container runtime

kubelet

kubeproxy

Components :

COntainer
POD
Replica controllor
Replica Set
Daemon Sets
Node selector
Services
deployments
Namespaces
stateful
volumes
horizontal auto scaling object..
Ingress Controllers
Helm

--------------



how to connect to K8?
CLI:
what is kubectl : this the client to interact to K8

With GUI : Kubenets dashboard

why some companies will go for odd number master Server?
Ans : Election.


In K8, when you create a POD, a ip address is assigned...So, if you create 2 containers in one POD, then one one ip address is assigned...to connect to a contoner, we use port numbers..

what is POD virtual network?

how 2 containers can talk to ech other in single POD?
Ans : Localhost


Replication controllor is to maintain the correct number of pods needed...
***these are assiciated with selectors & Labels

importance of Labels

types of selectors :

1. Equal to(replication controllors)
	It support 3 types of operators -->   =, == and !=
2. set based (replica sets) --> in & notin


If you want to make sure, 1 POD has to create in one WorkerNode, then we use Daemon sets.

with Daemon sets, the min POD & Max POD created per Worker Node is 1.

No concept of Scale Dowm & Scale up....

If you add more worker nodes, then each worker node POD is created automatically...So, you 
want to select this POD creation only on the required Worker Nodes, then we will use 
Node Selector.....For selection, we can use the labelling...

deployment object will automatically create a replica set when you use deployment..

Deployment types :

1. rolling upgrade or ramped upgrades or incremental upgrade.(99%)
2. recreate(0%)
3. Canary upgrade(1%)

Volumes:
If you kill a container, by default the data in it is deleted. if you want to persist 
data like stateful applications, then data should stored & we need volumes...

Types : 
1.temp volumes(ephermial volumes)
2.Host Path volume

by default, when pod is created, ephermial is created & vise virsa...

Horizontal Auto scaling object can work for Replica set/ replica controller & deployments..

Grouping of simular PODS are called as Services...

3 types of Services :

nodeport
cluster ip(by Default)
load balancer 

















